# Outreachy_sosobaccega_2022

I'm a brazilian science student and in Brazil we are living an exceptionally tense moment on denial of climate change. As environmental devastation is vectorized by government ignorant policies, this situation, in part, only got this far because our science culture it's not citizen science at all. We don't feel empowered to analyze the available data, even less to demand action based on it.
In Latin America lies one of the world's biggest biodiversity hotspots (the amazon rainforest) and fertile lands. On the other hand, Brazil, LA's largest country, is one of the most intense CO2 and methane emitters in the world. A lot of this damage stays with us, our population and resources, but an enormous amount of it also affects everywhere, even worldwide: while we suffer with severe floods and droughts, air and water pollution, vulnerability of indigenous lands and communities in here, this contribution of greenhouse gasses unconditionally spreads way beyond borders. Urban and rural areas are being degraded, each in its own way.
I currently live in São Paulo, the biggest city of Brazil, in population and area. This city that has two dead rivers (Tietê and Pinheiros), high levels of air pollution and - disconsidering our good environmental monitoring tools - inefficient emission control policies.  In 2019, we had a mid-day night sky in a lot of São Paulo state cities caused by fires in the Amazon forest. The smoke travelled an area of at least 3000 kilometers. This was a striking case, but wasn’t isolated: last September smell of smoke and increased pollution due to the same reason affected not only brazilian regions (it was reported in São Paulo and Paraná states), but also went international, as it went all the way Bolivia too. The pollution was that of 10 times the maximum amount considered dangerous by the World Health Organization. And, as for what doesn’t “just concern” animal and human populations’ health, this kind of event has a two-sided attack on environmental scenarios: fires, per definition, burns down entire carbon sequestrating agents (vegetation and soil) and subtracts them from our climate regulators resources, and then they add this pollution and greenhouse gasses to the atmosphere. Not only this type of event is caused by climate change (extreme temperatures and droughts, for example), but also drives climate change in a regional scale.
We only can tackle it if we can monitor it and model it in advance, keep up with every new aspect of it and use technology to address its causes and possible consequences. How climate change affects each region is really different, so we need the tools to understand and approach each case and then build efficient strategies.
When I studied to become an environmental technician, I noticed that our power of action only goes this far if we don't integrate data and knowledge, science and technology to fully understand what can and needs to be done. Now I’m studying science and technology as a bachelors with this same intention: to build the skills and knowledge towards environmental and climate science through tech. Because of this, I've been looking for the chance to engage with collaborative and interdisciplinary projects that aim to do this. I believe that we have to organize ourselves with well informed, real data based, demands and plans.

Climate solutions and adaptations will have to be written accordingly. Emissions control for a rural environment might mean agricultural practices that avoid soil exhaustion and water waste, less land needed for x amount of production, less land dedicated to cattle and more land and aid for small producers. Each one of these measures could result in more sustainable use of resources and significant change of ghg emissions. As for urban environments, it could mean more regulation of industries' use of resources, waste management and its various kinds of emissions, monitoring pollution of soil and water by the cities and also policy towards more sustainable means of transport, be them streets or roads. For either scenario, adaptation should consider land and water use, long lasting structures for each mitigation or prevention strategy and population (again, human and animal) needs. Smart policies should be widely integrated and prioritize efficiency.
